Javi, thank you very much.
Thanks to you.
It will be a pleasure.
In this class I would like to
analyze, it is a very simple class,
in which I would like to analyze
the advertising market and
for this I refer to understanding
basically what is the destination
or investments, the main advertising
investments that we make
companies in the world, understanding
or classifying a little
about how the online versus
the offline is distributed.
Within the online, for example,
it would be interesting to know how
the cake is distributed within
the online, what types of platforms,
what types of investments, what
types of channels, etc.
Well, I think it is a bit the question
of the million, because we would
all like to know where everyone
is investing exactly, but well,
I think it is worth it to also know
what was before the Internet or,
well, because I have been a few years
already in the world of advertising
and almost three when the
Internet was beginning, because
where the companies were
destined before their advertising
investments, how they captured
or how they came to their
customers, how they were able
to give their message.
Then until the end we have to think
that what they had was a television,
which is the great medium of coverage,
the way to reach the masses and
give the greatest possible notoriety
to your product.
We had a press that historically
has been the great medium of
credibility, where we say that
the impact was efficient as
to what it is a medium, and it
still is, very credible and
that gives a great user
confidence and, therefore,
was very used especially in
campaigns that needed that
reliability.
And then we had the radio, which is
in Spain mainly, in addition,
where it is a medium so popular
and so democratic, that it is the great
medium of frequency, to repeat one
to the listener.
And it was a bit of the combination
of all these media, within the
press, of course, rists,
etc., or print media.
The combination of those media
that made the advertisers
decide what was the best strategy
to follow, but with a lot
of difficulty, because they
really faced problems
of, really all this I’m investing
in, how it’s paying the investment,
how I’m recovering, I’
m reaching the audience
I need to reach,
etc. etc.
Then, I think it comes, suddenly,
appears on stage what we call
the internet and, therefore,
obviously, a new channel and
new advertising capabilities
to develop with this channel.
I will ask you two questions.
When will it arrive?
This is not black and white, but
if you can illustrate how it
has been, it is a good idea.
I think, I can tell you, in
Spain, that the first campaign that
is launched should be in the mid-
90s.
I remember, for example, in my stage
in the country, when I arrived, I
arrived much later, but, well,
I remember when they commented
how the first campaign in the
country was, that was with a megabanner,
that is this banner that appears
on the top of the newspaper, and
that was just there, it had
no type of measurement, it could
not be clicked, it didn’t take
you to any site, it just
appeared as a press announcement,
but on the web, didn’
t it?
So, well, imagine that...
It had no navigation.
Nothing, nothing, it was just, you appeared
on the country.com and you had that
impact, didn’t it?
Imagine where we’ve been
from now on, right?
That is, we started in the year,
in the mid-90s, we started in 95, we
are in 2018, and it is the second
question that I was going to ask you.
And today, how much does offline weigh,
what is what you talk about television,
press, radio, both nationally
and locally, etc.?
That is the offline, and the online,
that we will now analyze, but
how much does the online, press,
more or less?
I know this cannot be done...
See, there are very many meters,
indicators and marketing, info
adex, etc., which try to give us
some approximations.
What we have clearly is that, at
the global level, the weight of the
internet is increasingly growing,
the progression is exponential.
In the United States we already have data
where the internet, the internet
advertising investment has outpaced
the television advertising investment,
which was something unthinkable
10 years ago.
For us, it was a milestone
practically unattainable.
Television advertising investments
are huge, the price of even
buying on television is very
high, and we thought we would never
get there and we are there
already.
By giving you data from Spain, we
are estimating that digital investment
can be between 30 and 35% of the
total advertising investment,
but we believe that, in 2020,
we can be in that 50-50 already.
We may be talking about all digital
investment being at the same
level as investing in the rest
of the media, which would be
a milestone and clearly showing
where advertisers are heading.
It is undoubted.
And the next thing we will
analyze is, we know the two
masses, in Spain you said
50-50 in 2020, now you said
30-35, etc.
So, let’s go to the digital side.
How is this cake distributed?
In the digital world,
we have to distinguish
between two major divisions
of the budget.
On the one hand, we have a 50% that is
devoting to search, to search engines,
to a non-organic positioning within
a search engine.
That is, when you do a contextual
search, you put a word inside
a search engine and the result that
appears is a non-organic
result, that is, that is paid
by the advertiser, because that
is the investment we spend
in search.
We, within the classification
we have made of channels,
have called it SEM
search marketing?
Perfect, that’s the name, in addition,
that’s the 50%.
That is.
Who is the player by excellence
in the search world?
Google, because really, in addition,
the market share that Google
has in Spain is brutal,
is above 90%.
Maybe in the United States there
are other players who have added
a little bit of that cake, like
a Bing, from Microsoft,
like a Yahoo.
In Spain, it was Google.
The search part is also beginning
to have new ways to
monetize.
Amazon has launched its
own search solution.
Why is?
People are looking for
products on Amazon.
In fact, there is a very
high percentage of users who
use the Amazon search engine
to bring a product.
And, obviously, companies are
interested in pushing for those
results.
So, obviously, being years, Luz,
is a new investment channel that
is pure search and that is pure
contextual.
An interesting conclusion of what you
just said or an implication
of what you just said is that Amazon,
today it can already be considered,
that many people do not usually
ask it ever, in addition to marketplace
and commerce, is a search engine.
He is a seeker.
That is, we can say that users
who have an intention to buy
or who even simply
look to compare products,
see the health of a product
inside because, as you know,
Amazon then has a
rating, has a product
reviews, etc, etc.
The user is therefore
obviously interested not only in buying
it, but in understanding the
product better, in looking for
more information.
So yes, he is a searcher.
Well, and as I told you, I think
there is another 50% that belongs to
the universe that we would call
display once we can part in
different investment models.
We have traditional banners, because
all of those we see when we
browse the various sites.
We have a very powerful investment
in video, which is one of the
digital channels that is getting
the most relevance and that is
getting the biggest investment
growth and that was previously
directly not there.
So, I think there can be a certain
transfer also from those television
budgets to a format that is very
similar, that is more friendly,
that is more measurable and that
is more economical also for
advertisers and, finally,
of course, the entire mobile
part.
What are the Infinite Players?
Just like before in search engines
we could be more limited, because
you have to have a search
engine itself, any internet
property is likely
to have a buffer, to support
advertising.
We can go from the big players,
from Google itself, which has
its own display network,
to a Facebook, to an Amazon,
to a Twitter, a Snapchat, who
are global players cross-
country, to the players who
are eminently national, each
country has its big media,
has even its own social networks,
to the granularity
of the most local properties.
Spain, for example, is a very
good example of where the user
loves to have first-hand
information about their locality,
their city, their town and
there is that granularity, so
the fragmentation of the investment
that occurs in these channels
is still greater.
Measuring it almost one by
one is virtually impossible, so
I think we’ll get the picture that
50% goes to Search, 50% goes to
Display and we’ll see in a few
years where we are.
50% Search, I want to relate it to
what we have learned in other
classes or with the nomenclature.
50% Search, which is what we have
called SEM, 50% Display, which is
the rest.
Within the display there are different formats,
the format is that it is a banner,
that it is a video or that it is a video.
Mobile, that is mobile, that
are the formats, but these
three formats apply to
the different players or
the different platforms, that is,
to whom you hire that space, that
are, the largest are social networks,
with Facebook in the head, but
then you have clear, what I
said is a bestial atomization,
because any web page that
has enough traffic can
be used to put a banner.
That is, the digital entry
barrier is very small, so each
digital medium is susceptible
to support advertising, so the
fragmentation is virtually absolute.